# Cleaning and Getting Data Course Programming Assignment
<!--comment-->
The task of the course programming assignment is an analysis of sensors (accelerometer and gyroscope) data generated from experiments with Samsung Galaxy S II smartphones.
The experiment details can be found in references [1](#References), [2](#References) and [3](#References).

Within this course programming assignment there was an R script 'run_analysis.R' created that does the following:
 * Part I:   Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.  
 * Part II:  Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.  
 * Part III: Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.  
 * Part IV:  Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.  
 * Part V:   From the data set in step IV, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.  

The last data set is saved to the 'run_analysis_output.txt' file.


## The Programming Assignment includes the following files
 * 'README.md'                 - this file with course programming assignment description.  
 * 'run_analysis.R'            - R script that does data manipulating.  
 * 'CodeBook.md'               - Describes the experiment data variables and the steps taken to obtain final result.  
 * 'run_analysis_output.txt'   - Output file generated by the run_analysis.R script.  

## Structure of the data files
The path to the data from smartphone sensors (folder 'UCI HAR Dataset') must be defined in the variable 'data_Location' in the script 'run_analysis.R'.
The current version of the script must be placed at the same location as 'UCI HAR Dataset' folder

The folder 'UCI HAR Dataset' structure is meant to be following:  
&nbsp;|--&nbsp;activity_labels.txt  
&nbsp;|--&nbsp;features_info.txt  
&nbsp;|--&nbsp;features.txt  
&nbsp;|--&nbsp;README.txt  
&nbsp;|--&nbsp;test  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;Inertial&nbsp;Signals  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_acc_x_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_acc_y_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_acc_z_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_gyro_x_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_gyro_y_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_gyro_z_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;total_acc_x_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;total_acc_y_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;total_acc_z_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;subject_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;X_test.txt  
&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;y_test.txt  
&nbsp;|--&nbsp;train  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;Inertial&nbsp;Signals  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_acc_x_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_acc_y_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_acc_z_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_gyro_x_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_gyro_y_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;body_gyro_z_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;total_acc_x_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;total_acc_y_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;total_acc_z_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;subject_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;X_train.txt  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|--&nbsp;y_train.txt


## References
 * [1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012  
 * [2] http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones  
 * [3] README.txt of the dataset: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/00240/UCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip  